
                            == PTT V 1.3 ==

                  == (C) 2009-2014 KB4OID Labs ==

           == A division of Kodetroll Heavy Industries ==
			
PTT is a simple C program that will activate control line(s) (DTR or
RTS) on a hardware serial port based on parameters specified from the 
command line. It will then exit the program, leaving the control line 
in the specified state. It is the normal behavior of this program to 
ignore and not change the state of control lines on the same serial 
port that are not specified. This program is useful for controlling the 
Push-To-Talk line of an external radio connected to a control pin of 
the serial port, hence the name ptt. 

 * Note: This program is only intended to work with classic legacy 
 * 8250 based serial port hardware. It may work with other serial port
 * interfaces, perhaps MOS Chips or similar style hardware. However,
 * the serial port device must support 8250 style IO register access 
 * and have the control pins mapped to the same locations as in an 8250.
 
The program works by calculating the IO base address of the specified 
serial port, then adding the MCR register offset to this value. It 
will then do an ioperms call to allow the user space program to have 
access to the IO port. The program will then read the MCR register 
of the desired serial comm port, mask off and set the MCR register 
bit corresponding to the configured port control line as specified 
on the command line. It then writes the modified value back to the 
MCR register, thus affecting the output control line state. It then 
exits. This program is really more of a proof-of-concept program to 
demonstrate low level access to the i/o ports.

Author: Steve McCarter, KB4OID
(C) KB4OID Labs, a division of Kodetroll Heavy Industries
Date Created: September 2009
Revised: September 2013
Last Revised: October 2014
Version: 1.3

PTT can be used as follows:

The following command line arguments are valid:

   ptt port mode state

   Where:
   port: is 0-3 for ttyS0-ttyS3
   mode: is 0 for NONE, 1 for DTR only, 2 for 
		RTS only & 3 for BOTH
   state: is 1 or 0 for ON or OFF
